Title: Moving from Bangalore to Mumbai 
Date: 2018-08-06
Tags: Misc


So things got really interesting in the previous month. 

After my degree course got over, I was supposed to join Deloitte as a
campus recruit. Before the joining I attended the training program for
campus recruits for about two weeks.

In the mean time I responded to a tweet about a job position and that
tweet changed my life. That tweet let to a series of interviews which
culminated in a very generous job offer from a company in Mumbai. The
best part is that this is the most *perfect* job that I could hope
for.  My "official" job title is Linux Administrator, but there is
more to it.

![that tweet](assets/images/2018-08-06/twitter.png)

##### This is the tweet that changed everything... :-P


### Tl;Dr ###

I am moving to Mumbai. In fact I leave in like half an hour for my
flight. I am at my aunts place right now. This place was the first
building I walked into after I first arrived in Bangalore and I
thought it would be very poetic if this was the last building I walk
out of when I am leaving Bangalore for good (at least in near
foreseeable future). I will be visiting Bangalore from time to time
though.

## So What about Bangalore ? ##

Bangalore would always be the place I grew the F$#& up; because quite
honestly in Kolkata until I left, i was used to stuff like my mother
waiting with cooked food for me and someone else taking care of my
documents and having pocket money etc. All this changed when I first
moved to Bangalore. I remember not getting dinner one day during the
first week when I feel asleep for a slightly longer time. It was a
good learning experience. Living alone hits you in the face with a
truck. But, its fun and you get used to it after a while.

The down side of this is that you get so accustomed to being in-charge
that you begin to hate your family for trying to micromanage
everything from half a country away. :-P

Anyway, I am moving now, maybe I will come back here (to stay) if my
works brings me.

## About moving ... ##

To be completely honest; I am slightly excited about moving. But,
that's it *slightly* excited. I really like to work on things that I
like and for that I am willing to move anywhere. People who have
interacted with me during these past three years know how much
obsessive I can be with my work. So as long as my work is getting
done, I don't really care where I live. (Maybe this is not an *ideal*
thing.. but again I don't really care)

Moreover, I do not own too many things, so moving for me is like a
really long vacation. My most value-able possessions are my books (SICP
and CLRS !!). I don't cook for myself yet, I generally outsource it to
the nearest shop. I think this will change in Mumbai though. Also I do
not have too items in the luggage front as well. Just three bags
(including my backpack) which is really very less for someone moving
to a different city and vacating their accommodation of three years.

So technically I can literally stuff everything I own into three
bags. :-) 
> ![that tweet](assets/images/2018-08-06/luggage.jpg)


I have been very very fortunate to meet/know some of the people that I
know. All of them have had some impact on my life. I wanted to list
all of them here but that would be a disservice to the people not
listed. 

I haven't figured out a place to stay in Mumbai yet. I am going to
"wing" it. :-P

## About work ##

THIS is the thing I am most excited about. I value my work greatly
above everything else. This job even though it is in a small company,
will give me a lot of learning experiences than Deloitte. At Deloitte
joining as a fresher I would be at the bottom of the hierarchy,
however in this company I will be part of a very small technology team
and interestingly enough I will be the second sysadmin. Thus the scope
of responsibility is great. I will also have more decision making
powers than at Deloitte. Plus they are paying my well. Moreover I will
get to work with some of the most cutting edge open source
technologies and LINUX. (keywords are open source and Linux)

## About FSMK ##

Most of the work I do for FSMK can be done remotely, so I doubt that
it will be a problem. However I am also in the process of mentoring a
second batch of sysadmins at FSMK so that these kids can take up the
work.

Apart from this I will surely miss attending/speaking at the camps and all. 

A good thing is that Vikram from FSMK lives in Mumbai and he lives
quite near to my office. So maybe I will get some pointers from him
about similar organizations.

## SO... ##

So this is it. I will continue posting about Theoretical Computer
Science and scheme and everything else from Mumbai. It will take some
time. I need to get set up and get up to speed at work.

so yeah.. 

My next post will be from Mumbai. 

It has been awesome Bangalore!!! <3



